So in this next lesson, and this is going to be a good one.
Let's implement the ability for our people to be associated with their children.
OK.
So in other words, you could have a person instance and we can specify children of that person and
we can save the person and save all of the kids and eventually will be loading up the person with all
their kids, too.
So this is going to be really, really powerful because at least in my own professional experience,
I feel like this use case is actually the most common type of use case that I have experienced when
working with databases.
And this is called a one to many relationship because you'll have one parent or one person who can have
many children associated with him or her.
Right.
So it's a one to many relationship.
So the other use cases that we've implemented so far, where we are associating an address with a field
of a person have generally been more like one to one relationships, even though kind of sort of one
person can have, in this case, two addresses.
But because we're not saving those addresses as a collection of addresses and they are just individual
addresses, the relationship feels more like a one to one mapping.
But now we're going to do a one to many mapping one parent to multiple children.
So let's see how to do this.
So first thing, let's go ahead and just start in our tests again, and I think we can duplicate either
of these tests now because they are pretty much the same thing.
All right.
So I think we'll do something a little bit similar to what we're doing down here.
But instead of copying, I think I'm going to just create a brand new one because the address parts
aren't pertinent for us now.
Public void can save a person with children.
Perhaps.
All right, and so we'll start off with a person, and I will just duplicate this one here and bring
him down, John.
And then I want to start adding some children.
Now I want to show you a common pattern that we can use in Java when we are making these one to many
associations in Java code.
And so what we're going to do now, we want to create some children for John and then associate in Java
code first, the children with John.
And we could do it kind of the way we're doing it with the address where we just create a bunch of addresses
or in this case, we create a bunch of people.
And by the way, I mean, obviously, children are people, right?
I'm sorry, I didn't mention this.
We're going to model the child as a person because children are people.
Write their first names, last names.
They live in a place, et cetera, et cetera.
So they are a person.
So we will reuse the person class to do this one to many mapping.
OK.
Just as you probably previously just modeled a spouse as a person as well.
All right.
So we could create a bunch of individual people to represent the children and then somehow set those
children on the person the way that we're setting this address here.
But a very common pattern that you will see oftentimes when this when you have to do these one too many
associations is to do something like this John Dot.
Add child and then we can just pass in a new instance of a person in this case, because that would
be our child, right?
So then I can do something like a first name of Johnny.
Maybe instead of John with the last name of the see what was John's last name Smith and then a date
of birth.
So date time of.
And these are kids.
So I will give them birth dates that are much more recent than 1980.
So I don't know will do to 2010 come January 1st.
One 1:00 a.m..
Zero minutes.
Zero seconds.
Zero nanoseconds.
And a zone I.D. of negative six.
All right.
OK.
And now let's address this red mark here, because that method does not exist, right?
So I'm going to put my cursor there and do an option return and let's go ahead and create this add child
method.
And for now, we'll just let the add child method return void, which is to say it won't return anything
at all.
And this is good.
It will take a person as an input.
We'll call this variable child, though.
Now here's the trick.
If we want a person to be able to have children, how would you go about modeling that?
You want to take a moment to think about it and then come back to me?
OK.
Did you think that something, so if you thought of using a collection, perhaps to model a collection
of children?
That's how I would do it as well.
Now, in addition to modeling the children of a person as a collection, you'd also have to decide now
what collection class would you want to use here?
I would say that for use case like this, the two most common types of collections that you'll see used
will be either a list or a set.
Now, in this case, I would say the most common collection that I personally will use in a case like
this is actually a set rather than a list.
And the reason is because usually when we're dealing with a situation like this, we want to ensure
that we have unique instances of the people and a set will naturally enforce uniqueness as long as we've
implemented hash code and equals methods on our person class properly.
So I am inclined to use a set, at least for now, so I can come up here to the top of the class and
I'm just going to go ahead and introduce a set right now, private set of person.
I will import the set, then I will call this field children, and I will go ahead and initialize it
right away so that way it can never be null equals new hash set like sir.
OK.
And so now down here I can simply say children that add child like so now there's an additional pattern
that you may see implemented in Java code, and that is something like this.
You might also see code that would often do child that set parent this.
So what we're doing here is we're setting a bidirectional relationship where we're adding the child
to the collection of children on the parent.
But we're also allowing the child to be able to point back to his or her parent.
Right?
By adding a property called set parent.
So obviously, we're getting a red mark here because there is not currently a method called set parent,
but we can go ahead and let the ADT create this.
So I'm going to put my cursor on the set parent method here and then do an option return now.
Because this method is called set something, the ID recognizes that we might be referring to a standard
getter or setter method for a property.
And so we're getting the option here to just create a method or create an entire property called parent.
I'm actually going to go ahead and let it create the entire property, so I'm choosing the second one
here.
All right.
And so now it's giving me all the options here, and I'm good with the data type.
I'm good with that name.
I'm good with this field called parent.
I'm good with all of that.
And so if we if it's in, so if we come up here to the top, we now have a field called parent as well.
Now this is really very similar to what we did with addresses, and because it's so similar, I'm inclined
to go ahead and model this as actually an optional of a parent.
Just as we did four addresses someone to come here and actually just wrap that.
And an optional like, so and that means I want to go ahead and also initialize it.
Just like we did for the addresses and now I'm going to have errors down here that I need to fix just
as we did before, so I can't just have a parent anymore.
I now need to do an optional of Nullarbor.
Of the parent.
And then this get parent will now return an option, an optional.
Person, just like so, OK, so pretty much the exact same pattern as addresses, that's the main thing
to to be mindful of here.
All right.
So now let's jump back over to the test.
And now I read Mark just went away and now I can just duplicate this line 83, maybe two or three times.
However, many children, you want this guy to have so duplicated a couple more times and then change
the names here to, I don't know, Sarah.
And and maybe Jenny.
And then let's see, we'll make these kids be born every two years, so 2012 and then 2014 and let's
say every two months as well.
So three and five and the rest of these fields we can leave alone.
All right.
So Johnny, oh, and let's change his name now.
We don't need him to be called Johnny.
So now John Smith has three kids, Johnny.
I guess that's John Jr., Johnny Smith, Sarah Smith and Jenny Smith.
OK.
All right.
And so now we will want to go ahead and just save.
As we have done before, and we'll go ahead and capture him as well, saved person and now what can
we assert, though, because we will not yet have implemented the ability to retrieve a person with
their children, right?
So I think just as up here, we're saving the person with an address.
And then we asserted that the addresses ID is greater than zero or not null or whatever.
I think we can do something along those lines down here as well.
So let's see.
Let's see how we can do this.
Maybe we can do something like assert that.
Saved person, not get children are now look here, we don't have they get children yet, do we?
So let's let's go implement that.
So I just put my cursor there and we will implement this method, get children.
And this method should return a set of person because that's how restoring the children, right?
And then we'll just return the internal set return children, just like sir.
So we've got an add child method here and now we've got to get children method.
So right now, we're not very symmetrical, right?
Normally we'd have a get children and then we'd have a set children.
But right now, having a set children method doesn't really make a lot of sense for our needs.
It makes more sense to be able to just add individual children, and it's more convenient, in my opinion.
Now, we certainly could add a set children method at a later date or whenever you want to, but I don't
need that right now, so I'm not going to add it, and I want you to understand that let's try never
to get so stuck in the standard patterns that we just do them mindlessly.
If you don't need a set.
Children method, then don't create it.
OK, and right now, I don't need that, but I do need to get children method.
All right.
So jumping back over here to now, we've got get children.
Now this is going to return a set though, right?
So I think what I want to do is just kind of like assert that each child now has an ID that isn't zero
set on them, right?
And as I'm thinking about this, I'm actually thinking, maybe I don't want to start off with this assertion
right here.
Maybe instead, what I actually want to do is invert how I'm going to do this assertion.
So let me show you what I mean here.
So maybe we reference the saved person died, get children.
And then we use the Stream's API to iterate over each of the children and then assert whether or not
their ID is greater than zero or something like that.
So let's see what that might look like.
So we get the children and then we can get a stream.
And now inside of this stream of children, maybe we can map the children to just their IDs.
So let's see what that might look like.
So map to person.
Get it.
So there's the ad and then maybe we can do a.
For each and say something like for each, I'd assert that I.D. is greater than zero.
Maybe we can just do that.
All right.
So that way we can check every single one of them and make sure they all got saved.
So we're looping over all the children, getting their IDs and then asserting that all of their IDs
are greater than zero.
All right.
So let's run that and see it fail.
OK.
Expecting actual not to be null, so currently all their IDs are null, which they should be.
All right.
And so now let's go make this work.
Now this is going to be kind of interesting.
So let's look first at the spreadsheet.
All right.
So we're going to have this people table here, right?
And so how can we associate a bunch of children with their parents, but using the same table because
they're all people, right?
So what I have in mind is just as we have added the home address and we added the business address,
we could add a foreign key that points back on to the same table again.
But this foreign key would be a parent ID.
OK, so let's say, for example, that Larry Kim is the child of Jerry Smith.
OK, how could we record the fact that Larry Kan is the child of Jerry Smith inside of this same table?
Well, I think all we need to do is just add another column, so let me add a column.
And this column could be called something like parent I.D..
And so, Larry, Kim's parents, Jerry, so then that would mean that we need to put a ten year meaning
the parents of Larry Kim is the person record with ID of 10, which is right there, right?
So this would point back up to here, and that's the parent.
And now Jerry Smith could have multiple children, and those would just be additional people with a
parent ID of 10.
So if we wanted an Jackson to be one of Jerry Smith's children, all you'd have to do is just add a
10 right there as well.
And so now we know that Jerry Smith has two kids in this data, right in this data set.
And and Larry, so we just need to add this parent ID.
Now, this is just one way that we could model in the database a parent child relationship or a one.
To many, a parent child is another way of also kind of describing a one to many relationship.
Another way that we could do it is actually by using what's called a join table where we'd have a separate
table and a nice thing about using a join table, which we might look at in a future lesson.
But not right now is that with a join table, we don't have to add in this parent ID here.
We could just leave everything the way that it was.
The parent ID bit here would actually just live in the join table itself.
And then we join to the join table in order to express the relationships between the parents and the
children.
But we'll save that for another lesson.
All right.
So but this approach looks somewhat similar to what we've already done with home addresses and business
addresses.
And so that's why I'm starting off by just showing you this with this approach.
So that means that we need to go to the database and add a parent ID column with a foreign key that
references back to the ID column of the same table.
And so we're getting into this kind of recursive kind of thing, both in the Java code and now in the
database as well, where we're going to be joining the people table to itself.
And I think that's pretty cool.
But hopefully, if you already implemented the spouse use case, then you already have done pretty much
the same thing here.
All right.
So let's pop over to squirrel and connect to our people test database.
And so let's go ahead and just add in another column now.
So we're going to do an altered table.
People add column parent I.D. and this will be a big ant.
And then we're going to say that it references people I.D. just like that.
And let's go ahead and execute that.
And this is going to take a minute and probably literally it might take about one minute.
All right.
So we've got that new column added now, so let's jump back over to the ad..
And now we can jump into the people repository class.
So here's the sequel where we are currently inserting people right?
And so currently we just insert these standard fields that we've already got.
So now we're going to need to add another one.
Which is the parent I.D. And that means we need to add another parameter here as well.
And then we're going to need to come down here to where we map for saving.
OK, so we're going to receive this entity here and a prepared statement.
And so currently we go ahead and associate a saved home address and business address with parameters
six and seven on this prepared statement in order to save all of that.
So now we need to consider, though, how do we do this for the children?
Right?
So if we're just saving a regular old parent, then the parent I.D. will be null, OK, because it is
a parent and we don't have any parental information about the parent's parent, right?
So we would just be putting a needle in for that.
But if we're saving children, then we will need to have the parent I.D. first before we can save the
child so that we can put that ID in here, right?
So unlike the addresses where we were saving the addresses first and then getting the idea of the address
and then sticking that into the appropriate column for the person when we're saving children, it's
the other way around with the way that we're modeling things here.
We first will need to save the parent so that we can get the parents I.D. and then we will stick that
ID in the parent ID column of the children records.
OK, so it's just because of the way we're modeling it.
We're just going to do it a little backward.
Their opposite of how we did the addresses and the reason for that, again, is just because of the
fact that we're not doing a one to one mapping.
We're now doing a one to many mapping.
And so there's not a really efficient way to put all the IDs of the children on the parent record.
It makes more sense to associate the one parent record with all of the children.
All right.
So that's going to be kind of interesting now because this is the method that our credit repository
calls to save a person.
However, this method does not give us the ability to retrieve that person's ID after they've been saved.
So let me show you why that is.
Let's jump up into the crud repository itself, and let's go to the method that's calling Map for Save.
So if I just right click on the map for Save Method here, I can find usages or do a alter option F7
and that's being called by the save method so I can minimize that.
All right.
So here we are in the save method and this is what's actually calling map for save.
OK.
And so we execute the map for save with a prepared statement that execute update.
Then we turn around and prepare to get the generated keys, which is the ID, the saved ID, the generated
ID of the person that we just saved.
So we call Typekit generated keys that returns back on new results set and then we extract the ID out
of that, which is right there.
And then we associate that I.D. back on to the Java object, which in this case would be the person,
right?
So we're getting the ID from the database and then resetting that I.D. on to the person, which is what
this would be in this particular case.
So if we want it to now use that ID to save the children, we'd have to do it somewhere after here.
But right now, our KRudd repository framework doesn't give us an easy way to get our hands on that
parent ID or that person's I.D..
So what I'm kind of thinking of doing here is to introduce another method that we can override on the
crud repository that gives us that opportunity to say like, OK, after I save a thing, if I want to
do some more stuff with that saved thing, give me an opportunity to get a callback, essentially to
do that right?
So here's what I mean.
Maybe we can do something like this.
Maybe we can have a method, and I don't want to spend a lot of time thinking about this right now,
but maybe something like post save and then maybe this method can pass in our newly saved entity and
maybe even the idea, even though technically the ID should be on the entity.
But maybe just to make it really, really explicit we can just pass it in.
OK.
So let's let the I.D. create this method for us to create that method.
And I suppose it can be void and it's data type can be T and entity can be a good name.
And for now, we can let the data type of the ID continue to be long.
Although I don't recall now, did we use a capital long?
Currently, we're not.
That's fine.
OK, so for now, we'll use a lowercase long.
All right.
Now, we don't want this to be private because we want to be able to override this method.
OK in our people repository, so I'm going to make it protected like so.
And in fact, I think I even want to move it down to our other protected methods that can be overridden.
If you remember what those were.
They're kind of down here towards the bottom.
I know it's been a while.
Yep, down here.
So I kind of want to follow a lot of this pattern, basically.
So let's see here.
Yeah, maybe right here now I will not have this method by default doing anything at all and including
I won't have it throwing any runtime exceptions because this method is going to get called every single
time.
So we're going to let it default behavior be to just do nothing at all, which is what it's doing right
now.
And I'm going to clean this up a little bit by just joining these lines here just to save a little space.
OK, so there we've got a post save method.
OK.
And so now if we jump back over to the people repository method here now we have a way to do something
with a person after he has been saved, right?
So all we need to do now is just override the post save method right here.
And I don't even need to call this super method because currently the save method isn't doing anything
anyway, so I'm just going to delete that.
So now we've got an entity which is a person with an actual idea already set on him at this moment.
So now we can go ahead and save the children.
And I think the easiest way to do that would be to simply say something like Entity Dot, get children,
dot stream, perhaps and then maybe do a for each and then maybe a this save.
So literally just iterate over all the kids and save them.
That's probably about the easiest way to do this.
It may not be the most efficient if this person had like thousands of children, by the way, but it
lets us reuse a lot of our code as it already exists currently.
Now, let's go back up here again and see what else we're going to need to do, though, because that's
not enough.
So we added this parent ID here, and that is now an eighth parameter, I think.
One two three four five six seven eight.
Yeah, and that's now an eighth parameter.
So let's come down here and we see that currently we're only saving seven parameters, right?
So now we need to be able to be smart about saving this eighth parameter because if we're saving a parent,
then that's going to just be null.
It only needs to be set to an actual value if it's a legitimate child, right?
So maybe we can do something like this if entity does get parent is present because we remember we modeled
the parent as an optional.
So if that's present, then that set long and then we need to pass in the index.
The column index, which is the parameter index, which is eight and then entity get parent.
Now, this is an optional, so we need to now unwrap it out of the optional with a call to get.
Which again, is safe to do because right here we're checking to make sure that there actually is a
value inside of the optional before we call it, get right.
So get.
And then we can call it get ID.
Like, so now technically, we might not like this duplication here where we're doing entity that get
parent twice.
We could select all of that and extract out a variable and replace both of those occurrences and just
call it parent just like so we can do that.
All right.
So if there is a parent, get that parent's ID and then bind that to this eighth parameter here.
Otherwise or else, let's do a that set object.
Eighth parameter and just set it to null.
Now again, you understand by now I hope why I'm using the set object here instead of set long, even
though it's for the same parameter, right?
It's just that you cannot set null on a primitive long.
And that's what this method set long is expecting a primitive long.
OK.
So in that case, I need to use the set object method because that will allow me to set that value to
an actual null.
That's the only reason that I'm using said object instead of set long again.
And I wouldn't mind just making this a little more concise by extracting that all out into its own method
similarly to how we did with the addresses.
So I've selected all of that and I'm going to do an optional command M..
And then I will say something like associate child with person like so and that just helps to keep this
method a little more easy to see, right?
We don't have to get into all of these details here.
All right.
So let's just see if this is enough.
I running our test and again, this is where it's so nice to do things in a TDD approach because you
get a little too deep in the weeds of all your programming.
And then it's kind of hard to see, like, did I do enough yet or are there more steps?
Well, by having that test already written, the test will fail if we didn't do enough and it'll probably
tell us right where we have gone wrong, right?
So we don't have to we don't have to keep it all in our heads, right?
We can just run the tests and the tests will tell us if we're done.
So I'm going to open up the last test that we ran, which was the new one that we wrote.
And then I'm just going to run this again.
A and looks like we've got a winner.
Cool.
So apparently that did what we needed it to do.
All right.
So in the next lesson, we'll do the other side now and we'll retrieve the people.
And I think there's going to be some neat concepts that we can visit when we have to retrieve these
children.
So I'm kind of looking forward to that.
So I'll see you in the next one.